1. Git repo of json files 
1a. cloned to disk
2. Each file read into memory as strings (185 Mg)
2b. and serialized (Newtonsoft) into one to one models (exactly matches the source data)
3. These serialised models are not in a fit state to be stored efficiently (there would be lots of redundancy and lookups would be inefficient) are combined and normalised into intermediate models
4. The intermediate models are normalised further into domain models to be added to the database.
5. Models are added to the database using tools in the data access layer

Code generation
Much of the code is autogenerated to adjust for changes made in the database schema 
I wrote some code to figure out the json properties across all of the json files and there frequency across said files. From this I could create source models that exactly matched the source data.
Small number of known items (Like color) that don't appear to change became static data (as enums). In future we can code against this instead of doing.
With an enum you want to define your own id (no autoincrement in the db) because if it's defined once it becomes much easier to look up.
Stored procedures and domain models (DAL) are generated based on the migration schema.
MySQL is a technology that I haven't used and I wanted to expand my skillset (my last project MSSQL).

Workflow
1. Json data read into source models and analysed
	a. informs mysql database structure
	b. make database schema
2. Generate domain layer based on mysql schema
3. Create intermediate model to map between source and domain models

What I could bring

Work ethic : 
	1. I currently self organize my time and workload. 
	2. Daily/weekly/monthly emails to my employer stating my progress in the last working period. 

Team working : 
	1. I'm very happy to work as a team or with individuals on projects or smaller work items. 
	2. I'm happy to give and receive constructive (non offensive) feedback on any work (Scientist innit)

Enthusiasm : 
	1. I do programming (software engineering) because I love it and want to get better.
		a. I was a Scientist out of Uni.
		b. Ever since I've started programming it's been the part of my job that I've enjoyed the most
		c. Eventually, I decided to quit science and get into software engineering
		d. I took a big pay cut to do it
	2. I love organising social events for colleagues and getting people together. 
		a. Board game nights
		b. hiking
		c. pub visits 
		d. lunch together
		e. group meetings

Questions

What would my responsibilities be? What would my workload consist of?
What are working hours
What social events happen (lunch/Friday beers)
What professional development is available and/or training courses
Would be assigned a team leader (reporting hierarchy)
Dress code
What's your favorite part about working here
