Getting started

Entity framework is an object relational mapper (ORM). Simplifies the effort going from objects to relational data in the database.

Typical ORM

Domain classes -> DB

Entity framework allows you override the mappings between domain classes and database schema tables/columns.

How EF Works

Domain classes <-> EF DBContext api <-> data in database

	Define model
	Express and execute a query (users.where(user => user.Id == id).ToList())
	EF generates and executes SQL
	EF transforms the results into your types
	Modify data
	EF Save changes
	EF update database

Can map to views instead of tables or use stored procedures.

Number of ways of defining a model
	Designer in visual studio. EDMX
	Use straight code models

	Both methods give the same result at runtime.
	If you go with the "code first" approach you can let EF create the DB.
		EF will try and work out exactly what the database should look like but you can override the mappings if you want.

EF HISTORY

First version in 2008 - EF1
Second version in 2010 - EF4
	Removed need for domain classes to be tightly coupled to EF. 
	Use of POCOs instead
	Shortly after we got the DbContext and Code First apis add-ons.
Third version 2012 - EF5
Forth version 2013 - EF6
	Open source. DbContext moved into EF package.	

We use EF's DbContext API to allow your classes to interact with a relational DB in the following ways
	Map classes to database schema
	Translate and execute queries
	Track changes
	Infer and execute updates

Another critical class is the DbSet. This is a repository that is responsible for maintaining an in memory collection of entities (like users).
Queries are performed through DbSets, asking the DbContext to query by way of the DbSet of Users. In turn, EF interprets that into a database query.

For example: 

public class DatabaseContext : DbContext
{
    public DbSet<User> Users { get; set; }
}

At runtime when EF sees the DbContext class it'll look at the User Entity and infer a database schema.

By default when you set up EF it'll use SQL Server Express LocalDB which is a lightweight SQL server platform for developers.

Migrations
	Define/Change the model
	Create a migration file
	Apply migration to the database