Felidar Guardian hit with a surprise Ban-Hammer!!

To summarise the Wizards announcement:
1. They didn't originally ban it because they wanted Amonkhet metagame data
2. Amonkhet came to mtgo on Monday
3. Saheeli-Felidar's win-loss ratio and metagame share increased since the release of Amonkhet. 

I see two pretty large issues with their logic:
1. How much is the format actually shaken up by Amonkhet being put on mtgo? I would have thought that GPs and Pro Tours lead the way in innovation for new decks. 
2. How much data do they actually have? Is it not more than a few dailies worth? Or have I got that wrong?

Regardless, I very much doubt that 3 days is long enough to expect online players to acquire and build brand new decks that are super competitive. Making new decks that are competitive in the current format takes time, effort and 'cough' data. How on earth they expected to see any significant effect from the new format in such a short time is completely beyond me. After the first B&R announcement, earlier this week, players were under the impression that Wizards were waiting for the data from Pro Tour Amonkhet. In that annoucement they recognised that Pros play a big part in innovation for the format. I have no idea what has changed since then. 

Also, personally, although I think that banning Felidar Guardian will be good for the short-term health of the format (turn 4, two-card combos are not ok for standard) I think that this sets a super bad precedent for standard going forward. It reinforces the idea that Wizards are just willing to ban problem cards and reduces the trust we have that are cards have intrinsic value. Sure Felidar Guardian isn't an expensive card but how much is Saheeli Rai going to dip because of it? How much does it cost to sell and trade away a deck for a new one? The nature and timing of this banning - at a random point after Wizards had collected 'data' - is also worrying as it suggests that the ban hammer can fall at any time provided Wizards has 'data' (which they'd never share with us) to back it up.

http://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/news/addendum-april-24-2017-banned-and-restricted-announcement-2017-04-26