Continuous deployment
Continuous integration	
reverse proxy

Bootstrapper (object)
Persistence: In computer science, persistence describes dat that outlives the process that created it.
Persistent Data denotes information that is infrequently accessed and not likely to be modified.
Domain entities - All MVC frameworks start with the domain model as everything revolves around it.
ORM Framework (computer science):  Objects to Relational tables Mapping. Presents the tables, columns and rows of a relational database through regular C# objects.
    - LINQ can work with different sources of data, and one of these is Entity Framework.
View model: Not a part of the domain model. It is just a convenient class for passing data between the controller and the view.
API: Application Programming Interface: This is a set of functions and procedures that allow the creation of applications that access the features or data of an operating system, application or other service.

a set of functions and procedures that allow the creation of applications which access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service.

Request (MVC, Request/Response chain)
Routing (MVC, Request/Response chain):
Controller Factory (MVC, Request/Response chain): Responsible for creating instances of controllers to service requests.
Controller (MVC, Request/Response chain):
Action Invoker (MVC, Request/Response chain): Responsible for finding and invoking the action method in the controller class.
Action Method (MVC, Request/Response chain):
View (MVC): A mixture of C# and HTML that allows a mixture of dynamic and static content to be passed to the user interface.
  Dynamic Content: Generated at runtime and can be different for each request
    Inline code: For small, self contained pieces of logic like foreach  and if statements. Very common. (@code)
    HTML helper: For generating single HTML elements or small collections of them, typically based on view or model data (@Html.HelperMethod)
    Sections: For creating sections of content that will be rendered into the layout at specified locations (@section SectionName)
    Partial Views: For creating subsections of view markup between views. Can also contain inline code, HTML helpers and references to other partial views.
    Child actions: For creating  reusable UI controls or widgets that need to contain business logic. When you use a child action (an action method within a view), it invokes an action method, renders a view, and injects the result into the response stream.
  Static Content: Such as HTML, is created when you write your application and is the same for each request.

concrete (class, oop):
public (class, oop):
private (class, oop): the value can be accessed by methods within the class
protected (class, oop): the value can be accessed by methods within the class and subclasses
namespace (oop, c#):
scope (oop, programming):
child/parent namespace:
namespace:
abstract (class, oop): c# class keyword. Denotes that this class is not used to create instances

interface (c#, oop): An interface is used to represent a contract that a class may decide to support. It is basically a class with nothing but abstract methods. Interfaces commonly have names that are adjectives as adjectives modify nouns (or objects) like IDriveable

reference type:
value type:

member (c#): A catch-all term for any entity that resides in a class. This could be a field, a property, a method, a constant, a constructor etc.

thread (computing): In computer science, a thread of execution is the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by a scheduler, which is typically a part of the operating system.

Socket: A socket is an endpoint of to and from communication link between two programs (a server and a client). 

TCP/IP communication: Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol.
UDP/IP communication: User Datagram Protocol/Internet Protocol.

CGI script - (common gateway interface) This is any program that runs on a webserver.


class (oop) - defines the properties (as fields and properties) and behaviors (as methods) of the real world or virtual things that we are trying to model. All classes are reference types.
object (oop) - an instance of a class
structure (oop) - like a class this defines properties and behaviors of real world or virtual things. However, it is a value type rather than a reference type and therefore can only contain other fields that are value types and methods that use value types.
method (oop) - the behavioral part of a class or structure
field (oop) - the property part of a class or structure
property (oop) - also the property part of a class or structure
static class (oop) - defines a set of fields and methods that have to be static. Instead of creating an instance of a static class, you just call the fields and methods of that class directly (kind of like a function)
static method (oop)
static field (oop) - A field that is constant and (if contained within a non-static class) has one copy shared  across all object instances of that class.

checksum - a digit representing the sum of the correct digits in a piece of stored or transmitted data, against which later comparisons can be made to detect errors in the data.