I'm giving this brief (and it will be brief) speech today on behalf of myself and Jim, the other best man.

/*Please don't expect any embarrassing stories. I'm sure you know some yourselves if you've know Fynn for any length of time. I'm also going to keep it short and sweet.

Jim and I have know Fynn since 2006, the beginning of University. At Hall's of residence we were awarded the knickname of the 3 horses after the name of the Hall's bar. Needless to say we spent a bit of time there. The three of us spent our time at Bristol drinking, playing games and, in the case of Fynn, actually studying too. It should tell you something that Fynn studied veterinary science and is now a vet whilst neither myself or Jimmi are a chemist or physicist respectively!

Since that first year of universty, Fynn and Kerra, Myself and Lucy and Jim have been firm friends. We've partied together, been on holiday together, consoled each other in dark times and shared food, talk and friendship. 

Fynn is one of the most generous people I know. Mostly because he's generous with his time rather than his worldly goods. This year I was forced to take rather a lot of time off work due to illness. I won't bore you with the details but I spent many a day holed in my house, in pain and exhausted. Fynn has been a constant help through this turbulent time for me. He's offered advice, spent time talking to me and played endless rounds of video games with me to keep me distracted. I can't begin to describe how grateful I am for this. 

Fynn and Kerra, I wish you all the best for the future and hope I'm lucky enough to continue being a part of it.



Mark 1 - Introduction


Good evening/afternoon everyone. For those who don't know me, I'm Bernie and I'm giving this brief speech (I promise) today on behalf of myself and the other best man, Jimmi. 

Mark 2 - Meeting

Myself and Jimmi met Fynn in 2006, the first year of University where we shared the same in halls of residence. The three of us instantly recognised that we had a lot in common and spent much of that first year hanging out, playing computer games, squash at the halls squash court and spending time in the Hall's bar, The Three horses. In fact, due to the amount of time we spent in there we soon acquired the nickname of the Three Horses. We occasionally studied too. Although to be fair to Fynn he studied a good deal harder than myself or Jim ever did which is probably reflected in the fact that Fynn studied Veterinary science and is now a Vet whereas Jim and myself are not physicists or chemists respectively. It was also in our first year of university that Fynn and Kerra met. I first became aware of Fynn's timid interest during first year when Fynn drunkenly admitted to Jim and Myself (and I quote) "I like Kerra" demonstrating that exact ability that all men of the age of 18 have in expressing their emotions.

Mark 3 - The 5 of us

At Universtiy Fynn and Kerra, Myself and Lucy and Jimmi all became firm friends. A friendship that would see parties and work, graduation and work in the real world. Since university the 5 of us have been in constant communication. Sharing our lives, meeting up for regularly for food, games, and relaxation. It sounds cliched but in all the time we've known them Fynn and Kerra, have always seemed perfect couple to us. In autumn of 2017 Fynn and Kerra took off on a world tour. Spending every minute of every day together, in hot and sometimes cramped conditions, for almost a year will test the best of relationships. However, myself and Lucy met up with them in South America towards the end of their tour (best holiday ever by the way) and they'd never seemed happier. The 5 of us have also helped each other through rough times. In times of bereavement and poor health. And it's these times that I'm especially grateful to have such good friends.

Mark 4 - My health

On that note I need to sincerely thank Fynn for something. This year, I've had to take a fair bit of time off due to poor health. Through this turbulent period, Fynn, has shown me exactly how generous he is with his precious time. Despite working ridiculously hard and helping to plan a wedding, he's still found many occasions to chat with me, offering me advice, sympathy and distracting me with video games. I can't describe how thankful I am for this support. Thank you.

Mark 5 - Sticking together and the future

To stick with each other, through good times and bad, is what it means to be best friends. Jim and I count ourselves extremely lucky to have both Fynn and Kerra in our life and we're
 looking forward to adventures to come. 

A toast then

To the bride and groom.